I conducted a performance analysis for the Spotify a digital music service. This analysis provides a comprehensive insights into artists and their track list streams for the year 2023. With the use of power bi, I was able to analyze the data and make analytical report. This analysis is intended to assist the management in making informed decisions that will help improve the company performance in the coming years.
Key Insights :
The best artist of the year by streams is The Weekend 
The most streamed track name of the year is Blinding light by The Weekend with about 3.7billion streams
The most streamed artist name is The weekend with a sum of 14.2billion streams from his track list. Followed by Taylor Swift with a sum of 14.1billion streams.
The total sum of streams overall is 498 billion streams
The most included in Spotify playlist by track name, Get Lucky – radio edit with about 53k playlist inclusion. 
The most included in apple playlist by track name, Blinding light by The weekend, with about 672 inclusion.
  
Observation And Recommendation
According to the analysis i was able to derive that the most streamed track is Blinding Light by The weekend. Its a single released on the 29th of November 2019 with a total stream of 3,703,895,074. 
followed by Shape of you form Ed Sheeran with 3,562,543,890 sum of streams. Shape of you is a single released on 6th of January 2017.
Also, i observe that the best artist with streams is The weekend followed by Taylor Swift. 
furthermore, i observe that the weekend Blinding light has the most included in the apple playlist leading with large number of 670 followed by Bohemain Rhapsody with 321.
lastly Spotify playlist most included track is Get lucky with 53k.
i will recommend that Spotify gives other great songs a listening hears and also try and look deep into what their listeners want
also they should give a fair play ground for the listeners to have more choices of tracks to listen to.
I will recommend that Spotify look into other song streaming platforms for more songs and artists.
